Refine MASTG-TEST-0281 with better steps and criteria including new techniques MASTG-TECH-0136, MASTG-TECH-0137 and MASTG-TECH-0138 (#3338)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: techniques/ios/MASTG-TECH-0137.md

                                  <string>NSPrivacyCollectedDataTypePurposeAppFunctionality</string>
                                  <string>NSPrivacyCollectedDataTypePurposeOther</string>
                          </array>
                          <key>NSPrivacyCollectedDataTypeTracking</key>
                          <false/>
                  </dict>
          </array>
          <key>NSPrivacyTracking</key>
          <true/>
          <key>NSPrivacyTrackingDomains</key>
          <array>
                  <string>da-an-v3.tiktokv.com</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3-va.tiktokv.com</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3-sg.tiktokv.com</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3-i18n.tiktokv.com</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3.tiktokv.us</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3-ttp2.tiktokv.us</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3.tiktokv.eu</string>
                  <string>da-an-v3-ru.tiktokv.com</string>
          </array>
  </dict>
  </plist>
  ```

This `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` file contains:

- **NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes**: Lists the APIs accessed by the app along with their reasons for access. In this case:

>     - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults`: Accessed for reasons CA92.1, 1C8F.1, C56D.1

Reviewer: Link to explanation of these reasons?

Author: link is below

>     - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryActiveKeyboards`: Accessed for reason 54BD.1

Reviewer: Same

Author: link is below

>     - This indicates that the app uses `UserDefaults` and interacts with active keyboards for [specific reasons](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/app-privacy-configuration/nsprivacyaccessedapitypes/nsprivacyaccessedapitypereasons).

Reviewer: Having a bit of trouble with following the explanation. Would it make more sense to in-line it with the code?

> - **NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes**: Lists the APIs accessed by the app along with their reasons for access. In this case:
>     - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults`: Accessed for reasons CA92.1, 1C8F.1, C56D.1
>     - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryActiveKeyboards`: Accessed for reason 54BD.1
>     - This indicates that the app uses `UserDefaults` and interacts with active keyboards for [specific reasons](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/app-privacy-configuration/nsprivacyaccessedapitypes/nsprivacyaccessedapitypereasons).

Author: ```suggestion
- **NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes**: Lists the APIs accessed by the app along with their [reasons for access](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/app-privacy-configuration/nsprivacyaccessedapitypes/nsprivacyaccessedapitypereasons). In this case:
    - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults`: `UserDefaults` accessed for reasons CA92.1, 1C8F.1, C56D.1
    - `NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryActiveKeyboards`: interaction with active keyboards Accessed for reason 54BD.1
```

- **NSPrivacyTracking**: Indicates that TikTok uses data for tracking as defined under the App Tracking Transparency framework.
- **NSPrivacyTrackingDomains**: Lists the domains used for tracking purposes, which in this case includes various TikTok-related domains.

You can use several tools and parsers to read and analyze these files programmatically.

## Using jq

If you convert the `PrivacyInfo.xcprivacy` file to JSON format as described in @MASTG-TECH-0138, you can use jq to make queries.

For example, to extract all `NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons` for each `NSPrivacyAccessedAPIType`:

```console
cat TikTok.app/PrivacyInfo.json | jq '.NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypes[] | {api: .NSPrivacyAccessedAPIType, reasons: .NSPrivacyAccessedAPITypeReasons}'
```

Which outputs (truncated for readability):

```json
{
  "api": "NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategoryUserDefaults",
  "reasons": [
    "CA92.1",
    "1C8F.1",
    "C56D.1"
  ]
}
{
  "api": "NSPrivacyAccessedAPICategorySystemBootTime",
  "reasons": [
    "35F9.1"
  ]
}
...
```

> Benefits include readable output, standard JSON tooling, and concise selection syntax. Caveats are that dates and raw data blobs become strings, numeric precision may shift, comments and key ordering are lost. Consider Python's [plistlib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/plistlib.html) if you need to preserve plist-specific types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benefits include readable output, standard JSON tooling, and concise selection syntax. Caveats are that dates and raw data blobs become strings, numeric precision may shift,  and comments and key ordering are lost. Consider Python's [plistlib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/plistlib.html) if you need to preserve plist-specific types.
```
